README.md, before:

# Microsoft Teams fastlane teams_card plugin via Workflow

[![fastlane Plugin Badge](https://rawcdn.githack.com/fastlane/fastlane/master/fastlane/assets/plugin-badge.svg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/fastlane-plugin-teams_card)

> ⚠️ Note: This plugin utilizes the latest **Workflows** app (rather than the [now-retired Office connectors](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/retirement-of-office-365-connectors-within-microsoft-teams/) used in other plugins)

## Getting Started

This project is a [_fastlane_](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane) plugin. To get started with `fastlane-plugin-teams_card`, add it to your project by running:

```bash
fastlane add_plugin teams_card
```

## About teams_card

With this plugin you will be able to send a message on a microsoft teams channel, group chat or chat.

Beforehand you must Set up an incoming webhook workflow from a template in Microsoft Teams channel of your choice. You can follow this documentation to help you do this: [Incoming Webhook](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/create-incoming-webhooks-with-workflows-for-microsoft-teams-8ae491c7-0394-4861-ba59-055e33f75498)

`teams_card` allows you to send a fully custom message to a specific incoming webhook.

## Usage

```ruby
teams_card(
    workflow_url: 'https://your.logic.azure.com:443/workflows/1234567890',
    text: 'A new release is ready for testing!',
    image: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fastlane/boarding/master/app/assets/images/fastlane.png',
    image_title: 'Fastlane',
    ]
  )
```

or

```ruby
teams_card(
    workflow_url: 'https://your.logic.azure.com:443/workflows/1234567890',
    title: 'Notification Title',
    text: 'A new release is ready for testing!',
    image: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fastlane/boarding/master/app/assets/images/fastlane.png',
    image_title: 'Fastlane',
    open_url: 'https://beta.itunes.apple.com/v1/app/_YOUR_APP_ID_',
    facts: [
      {
        'title' => 'Environment',
        'value' => 'Staging'
      },
      {
        'title' => 'Release',
        'value' => '1.0.3'
      }
    ]
  )
```

This code give the following message:

<img src="screenshots/1.png">

### Help

Once installed, information and help for an action can be printed out with this command:

```bash
fastlane action teams_card
```

### `teams_card`

| Key         | Description                                        | Env Var(s)                | Default |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|---------|
| `title`     | Optional title                                     | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_TITLE`     |         |
| `image`     | Optional image on your activity (project logo, company logo, etc.) | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_IMAGE` |         |
| `image_title` | Optional title next to your image               | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_IMAGE_TITLE` |       |
| `text`      | The message you want to display                     | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_TEXT`      |         |
| `facts`     | Optional facts (assigned to, due date, status, branch, environment, etc.) | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_FACTS` | `[]`    |
| `open_url`  | Optional URL for a button at the bottom of the card | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_OPEN_URL`  |         |
| `workflow_url` | The URL of the incoming Webhook you created in Workflows app | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_WORKFLOW_URL` | |


## Example

Check out the [example `Fastfile`](fastlane/Fastfile) to see how to use this plugin. Try it by cloning the repo, running `fastlane install_plugins` and `bundle exec fastlane test`.

**Note to author:** Please set up a sample project to make it easy for users to explore what your plugin does. Provide everything that is necessary to try out the plugin in this project (including a sample Xcode/Android project if necessary)

## Issues and Feedback

For any other issues and feedback about this plugin, please submit it to this repository.

## Troubleshooting

If you have trouble using plugins, check out the [Plugins Troubleshooting](https://docs.fastlane.tools/plugins/plugins-troubleshooting/) guide.

## Using _fastlane_ Plugins

For more information about how the `fastlane` plugin system works, check out the [Plugins documentation](https://docs.fastlane.tools/plugins/create-plugin/).

## About _fastlane_

_fastlane_ is the easiest way to automate beta deployments and releases for your iOS and Android apps. To learn more, check out [fastlane.tools](https://fastlane.tools).

Commit message:

Added json schema validation test

README.md, after:

# Microsoft Teams fastlane teams_card plugin via Workflow

[![fastlane Plugin Badge](https://rawcdn.githack.com/fastlane/fastlane/master/fastlane/assets/plugin-badge.svg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/fastlane-plugin-teams_card)

> ⚠️ Note: This plugin utilizes the latest **Workflows** app (rather than the [now-retired Office connectors](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/retirement-of-office-365-connectors-within-microsoft-teams/) used in other plugins)

## Getting Started

This project is a [_fastlane_](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane) plugin. To get started with `fastlane-plugin-teams_card`, add it to your project by running:

```bash
fastlane add_plugin teams_card
```

## About teams_card

With this plugin you will be able to send a message on a microsoft teams channel, group chat or chat.

Beforehand you must Set up an incoming webhook workflow from a template in Microsoft Teams channel of your choice. You can follow this documentation to help you do this: [Incoming Webhook](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/create-incoming-webhooks-with-workflows-for-microsoft-teams-8ae491c7-0394-4861-ba59-055e33f75498)

`teams_card` allows you to send a fully custom message to a specific incoming webhook.

## Usage

```ruby
teams_card(
    workflow_url: 'https://your.logic.azure.com:443/workflows/1234567890',
    text: 'A new release is ready for testing!',
    image: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fastlane/boarding/master/app/assets/images/fastlane.png',
    image_title: 'Fastlane',
    ]
  )
```

or

```ruby
teams_card(
    workflow_url: 'https://your.logic.azure.com:443/workflows/1234567890',
    title: 'Notification Title',
    text: 'A new release is ready for testing!',
    image: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fastlane/boarding/master/app/assets/images/fastlane.png',
    image_title: 'Fastlane',
    open_url: 'https://beta.itunes.apple.com/v1/app/_YOUR_APP_ID_',
    facts: [
      {
        'title' => 'Environment',
        'value' => 'Staging'
      },
      {
        'title' => 'Release',
        'value' => '1.0.3'
      }
    ]
  )
```

This code give the following message:

<img src="screenshots/1.png">

### Help

Once installed, information and help for an action can be printed out with this command:

```bash
fastlane action teams_card
```

### `teams_card`

| Key         | Description                                        | Env Var(s)                | Default |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|---------|
| `title`     | Optional title                                     | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_TITLE`     |         |
| `image`     | Optional image on your activity (project logo, company logo, etc.) | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_IMAGE` |         |
| `image_title` | Optional title next to your image               | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_IMAGE_TITLE` |       |
| `text`      | The message you want to display                     | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_TEXT`      |         |
| `facts`     | Optional facts (assigned to, due date, status, branch, environment, etc.) | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_FACTS` | `[]`    |
| `open_url`  | Optional URL for a button at the bottom of the card | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_OPEN_URL`  |         |
| `workflow_url` | The URL of the incoming Webhook you created in Workflows app | `TEAMS_MESSAGE_WORKFLOW_URL` | |


## Example

Check out the [example `Fastfile`](fastlane/Fastfile) to see how to use this plugin. Try it by cloning the repo, running `fastlane install_plugins` and `bundle exec fastlane test`.

**Note to author:** Please set up a sample project to make it easy for users to explore what your plugin does. Provide everything that is necessary to try out the plugin in this project (including a sample Xcode/Android project if necessary)

## Run tests for this plugin

To run both the tests, and code style validation, run

```
rake
```

To automatically fix many of the styling issues, use
```
rubocop -a
```

## Issues and Feedback

For any other issues and feedback about this plugin, please submit it to this repository.

## Troubleshooting

If you have trouble using plugins, check out the [Plugins Troubleshooting](https://docs.fastlane.tools/plugins/plugins-troubleshooting/) guide.

## Using _fastlane_ Plugins

For more information about how the `fastlane` plugin system works, check out the [Plugins documentation](https://docs.fastlane.tools/plugins/create-plugin/).

## About _fastlane_

_fastlane_ is the easiest way to automate beta deployments and releases for your iOS and Android apps. To learn more, check out [fastlane.tools](https://fastlane.tools).
